New article: If you see an error when performing an Over-the-Air (OTA) update [HC-1572] (#393)
arduino/help-center-content: content/Arduino Cloud/Cloud Editor/If-you-see-an-error-when-performing-an-Over-the-Air-OTA-upload.md

When an Over-the-Air upload fails, you can find the error in the console output.

Follow these steps:

1. Find the console panel. If it is hidden, show it by clicking the button in the bottom-right corner.
2. Find the line that starts with "SHA256" or "Board error".
3. Find the instructions for that error in the [error reference](#errors).

<img src="img/ota-error-sha.png" width=800px/>

---

## Error reference for OTA uploads {#errors}

In this section:

* [Board error - errorwriteupdatefilefail](#errorwriteupdatefilefail)
* [Board error - httpresponsefail](#httpresponsefail)
* [Board error - otadownloadfail](#otadownloadfail)
* [Board error - otaheadercrcfail](#otaheadercrcfail)
* [Board error - otastorageinitfail](#otastorageinitfail)
* [Board error - serverconnecterrorfail](#serverconnecterrorfail)
* [SHA256 mismatch - Unable to apply the new firmware. Previous firmware detected after restart](#sha256mismatch)
* [SHA256 Unknown - Unknown Firmware detected after restart.](#sha256unknown)

### Board error - errorwriteupdatefilefail {#errorwriteupdatefilefail}

This error indicates that the device's memory partition table is improperly formatted.

Follow these steps:

> 1. Run the memory formatting sketch for your device architecture.
> 1. Reinitialize the storage with this Sketch: [QSPIFormat.ino](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/blob/main/libraries/STM32H747_System/examples/QSPIFormat/QSPIFormat.ino)
> 1. Reinstall the SSL certificates with this Sketch: [WiFiFirmwareUpdater](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/tree/main/libraries/STM32H747_System/examples/WiFiFirmwareUpdater)

Author: ```suggestion
* If you're using **Arduino GIGA R1 WiFi** or **Portenta H7**:
  1. Reinitialize the storage with this Sketch: [QSPIFormat.ino](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/blob/main/libraries/STM32H747_System/examples/QSPIFormat/QSPIFormat.ino)
  1. Reinstall the SSL certificates with this Sketch: [WiFiFirmwareUpdater](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/tree/main/libraries/STM32H747_System/examples/WiFiFirmwareUpdater)

* If you're using **Arduino Opta**: Follow [these instructions](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/opta/memory-partitioning/#partitioning-the-memory-of-an-opta).
* If you're using  **Portenta Machine Control**: Follow these [instructions](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/opta/memory-partitioning/#partitioning-the-memory-of-a-portenta-machine-control).
```

Follow these steps:

1. Find the console panel. If it is hidden, show it by clicking the button in the bottom-right corner.
2. Find the line that starts with "SHA256" or "Board error".
3. Find the instructions for that error in the [error reference](#errors).

<!-- TODO: Update image -->

<img src="img/ota-error-sha.png" width=800px/>

---

## Error reference for OTA uploads {#errors}

In this section:

* [Board error - errorwriteupdatefilefail](#errorwriteupdatefilefail)
* [Board error - httpresponsefail](#httpresponsefail)
* [Board error - otadownloadfail](#otadownloadfail)
* [Board error - otaheadercrcfail](#otaheadercrcfail)
* [Board error - otastorageinitfail](#otastorageinitfail)
* [Board error - serverconnecterrorfail](#serverconnecterrorfail)
* [SHA256 mismatch - Unable to apply the new firmware. Previous firmware detected after restart](#sha256mismatch)
* [SHA256 Unknown - Unknown Firmware detected after restart.](#sha256unknown)

### Board error - errorwriteupdatefilefail {#errorwriteupdatefilefail}

This error indicates that the device's memory partition table is improperly formatted.

Follow these steps:

> 1. Run the memory formatting sketch for your device architecture.

Author: What sketch(es) should be used for the difference device architectures?

> 1. Reinitialize the storage with this Sketch: [QSPIFormat.ino](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/blob/main/libraries/STM32H747_System/examples/QSPIFormat/QSPIFormat.ino)

Author: I believe this sketch is specific to STM32H747-based boards, i.e. GIGA/Portenta H7. Does this step only apply to these boards, or are there equivalents for other devices?

> 1. Reinitialize the storage with this Sketch: [QSPIFormat.ino](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/blob/main/libraries/STM32H747_System/examples/QSPIFormat/QSPIFormat.ino)

Author: We currently have this article in the Help Center: Configure GIGA R1 WiFi for Over-The-Air (OTA) uploads

It could potentially expanded and "generalized" to cover additional boards, at least Portenta H7 or any other boards that uses the same sketches.

For now, it's included in a "tip" [below](https://github.com/arduino/help-center-content/pull/393/files#diff-e08ad45a1eaaa5ef98f5ed20566bb3c4b8dd3b0534d7f3bc1222614b47380418R74-R75).

> 1. Reinstall the SSL certificates with this Sketch: [WiFiFirmwareUpdater](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/tree/main/libraries/STM32H747_System/examples/WiFiFirmwareUpdater)

Author: We currently have this article in the Help Center: Configure GIGA R1 WiFi for Over-The-Air (OTA) uploads

It could potentially expanded and "generalized" to cover additional boards, at least Portenta H7 or any other boards that uses the same sketches.

For now, it's included in a "tip" [below](https://github.com/arduino/help-center-content/pull/393/files#diff-e08ad45a1eaaa5ef98f5ed20566bb3c4b8dd3b0534d7f3bc1222614b47380418R74-R75).

> 1. Reinstall the SSL certificates with this Sketch: [WiFiFirmwareUpdater](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/tree/main/libraries/STM32H747_System/examples/WiFiFirmwareUpdater)

Author: Is this equivalent to "Upload SSL root certificates" using the Firmware Updater in Arduino IDE or the standalone Arduino Firmware Uploader CLI utility?

For that, we have this documentation that we can be linked in the troubleshooting: Upload SSL root certificates

Is there some other way of performing this procedure that we should to cover?

> [!TIP]
> If you're using GIGA R1 WiFi, see [Configure GIGA R1 WiFi for Over-The-Air (OTA) uploads](https://support.arduino.cc/hc/en-us/articles/12370721200540-Configure-GIGA-R1-WiFi-for-Over-The-Air-OTA-uploads).

### Board error - httpresponsefail {#httpresponsefail}

This error can occur if the OTA update fails during the firmware download.

Follow these steps:

1. Ensure that the board has a stable connection to Arduino Cloud.
1. Avoid extensive calls to the `delay()` function or other blocking code inside the `loop()` function of your sketch.

> 1. Try deactivating the watchdog timer on the device.

Reviewer: I think we should add here a reference or a page where we explain how to deactivate the watchdog.

This is the line to use in the `setup()` function. The `false` does the trick.
`ArduinoCloud.begin(ArduinoIoTPreferredConnection,false);`

Reviewer: We should also put this in all the sections of the document where the watchdog is mentioned.

Author: Resolved with https://github.com/arduino/help-center-content/pull/393/commits/d271aad09edba74f19019c4e01fd732f53ccea65

### Board error - otadownloadfail {#otadownloadfail}

This error can occur if the OTA update fails during the firmware download.

Follow these steps:

1. Ensure that the board has a stable connection to Arduino Cloud.
1. Avoid extensive calls to the `delay()` function or other blocking code inside the `loop()` function of your sketch.

### Board error - otaheadercrcfail {#otaheadercrcfail}

The header of the downloaded file does not match the expected one, likely indicating that the file was corrupted during the download.

Follow these steps:

1. Try to upload the sketch again.

### Board error - otastorageinitfail {#otastorageinitfail}

This error indicates that the device's memory partition table is improperly formatted.

Follow these steps:

1. Run the memory formatting sketch for your device architecture.
1. Reinitialize the storage with this Sketch: [QSPIFormat.ino](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/blob/main/libraries/STM32H747_System/examples/QSPIFormat/QSPIFormat.ino)
1. Reinstall the SSL certificates with this Sketch: [WiFiFirmwareUpdater](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/tree/main/libraries/STM32H747_System/examples/WiFiFirmwareUpdater)

> [!TIP]

> > If you're using GIGA R1 WiFi, see [Configure GIGA R1 WiFi for Over-The-Air (OTA) uploads](https://support.arduino.cc/hc/en-us/articles/12370721200540-Configure-GIGA-R1-WiFi-for-Over-The-Air-OTA-uploads).

Author: Any changes resulting from the comments made [here](https://github.com/arduino/help-center-content/pull/393/files#diff-e08ad45a1eaaa5ef98f5ed20566bb3c4b8dd3b0534d7f3bc1222614b47380418R64-R75) should probably be applied to these lines as well.
